# Notes regarding SmallTalk program

- running a simulation of type A branium (main classs) objects that are used in the type A barium class:

- time: collection of time, stored in miliseconds
- nullCategory: InputState object that represents null input (used to proivde cortex with no input spike for 25 miliseconds in between each of teh instances)
- favoredInputs**: collection of 25** inputs that are most active at smiliar times for each of the columns - utilized in creating input to the columns
- startingSelection: set of 50 (random input) - used to create set of favored inputs
- simultaneityCount: counter object - keeps track of number of times input is active at the same time as at least 5 other inputs
- remainingLargest: stores index of the remaining input in startingSelection set that is the largest

- code loops through the NumberOfColumns and creates a set of favoured inputs for each column. This is done by first creating a set of 50 random inputs. Then, the code iterates over the 50 inputs and keeps track of the number of times each input is active at the same time as at least 5 other inputs in the 50. The inputs that are active the most often are added to the favouredInputs set for the column.

- code will record the activity of the brain at different points during the simulation, including the input spikes, layer one spikes, layer two spikes, layer three spikes, and recording management inputs.

- code records the results of each category instance presentation in the PresentationResults and PresentationResults2 variables.

- The favouredInputs variable is an ordered collection of 25 inputs that are most often active at similar times for each column. means that these inputs are likely to be correlated with each other, which can lead to more efficient processing in the brain.

- The startingSelection variable is a set of 50 random inputs that are used to create the set of favoured inputs. This ensures that the favoured inputs are not all clustered together, which would make them less effective.

- The simultaneityCount variable keeps track of the number of times an input is active at the same time as at least 5 other inputs in the 50. This is used to determine which inputs are most often correlated with each other.

- The remainingLargest variable keeps track of the index of the largest remaining input in the startingSelection set. This is used to select the next input to add to the favouredInputs set.

- The 1 to: 40 do: :presentationCycles| loop iterates 40 times.

- In each iteration of the loop, the presentTripleCategoryInstance: method is called three times.

- The presentTripleCategoryInstance: method presents three different category instances in three different modulation phases.

- The modulation phases are used to control the frequency of the spikes.

- The X printResults. method prints out the results of the simulation. result: number of spikes generated by each column and the number of times each column was activated

# Diagrams
Diagrams are created using Umlet https://www.umlet.com/ see uxf files in doc directory
